.TH "bcm2835_spi_transfer_prologue" 9 "bcm2835_spi_transfer_prologue" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
bcm2835_spi_transfer_prologue \- transfer first few bytes without DMA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "void" bcm2835_spi_transfer_prologue
.BI "(struct spi_controller *ctlr "  ","
.BI "struct spi_transfer *tfr "  ","
.BI "struct bcm2835_spi *bs "  ","
.BI "u32 cs "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "ctlr" 12
SPI master controller
.IP "tfr" 12
SPI transfer
.IP "bs" 12
BCM2835 SPI controller
.IP "cs" 12
CS register
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A limitation in DMA mode is that the FIFO must be accessed in 4 byte chunks.
Only the final write access is permitted to transmit less than 4 bytes, the
SPI controller deduces its intended size from the DLEN register.

If a TX or RX sglist contains multiple entries, one per page, and the first
entry starts in the middle of a page, that first entry's length may not be
a multiple of 4.  Subsequent entries are fine because they span an entire
page, hence do have a length that's a multiple of 4.

This cannot happen with kmalloc'ed buffers (which is what most clients use)
because they are contiguous in physical memory and therefore not split on
page boundaries by \fBspi_map_buf\fP.  But it *can* happen with vmalloc'ed
buffers.

The DMA engine is incapable of combining sglist entries into a continuous
stream of 4 byte chunks, it treats every entry separately:  A TX entry is
rounded up a to a multiple of 4 bytes by transmitting surplus bytes, an RX
entry is rounded up by throwing away received bytes.

Overcome this limitation by transferring the first few bytes without DMA:
E.g. if the first TX sglist entry's length is 23 and the first RX's is 42,
write 3 bytes to the TX FIFO but read only 2 bytes from the RX FIFO.
The residue of 1 byte in the RX FIFO is picked up by DMA.  Together with
the rest of the first RX sglist entry it makes up a multiple of 4 bytes.

Should the RX prologue be larger, say, 3 vis-à-vis a TX prologue of 1,
write 1 + 4 = 5 bytes to the TX FIFO and read 3 bytes from the RX FIFO.
Caution, the additional 4 bytes spill over to the second TX sglist entry
if the length of the first is *exactly* 1.

At most 6 bytes are written and at most 3 bytes read.  Do we know the
transfer has this many bytes?  Yes, see BCM2835_SPI_DMA_MIN_LENGTH.

The FIFO is normally accessed with 8-bit width by the CPU and 32-bit width
by the DMA engine.  Toggling the DMA Enable flag in the CS register switches
the width but also garbles the FIFO's contents.  The prologue must therefore
be transmitted in 32-bit width to ensure that the following DMA transfer can
pick up the residue in the RX FIFO in ungarbled form.
