.TH "comedi_dio_insn_config" 9 "comedi_dio_insn_config" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
comedi_dio_insn_config \- Boilerplate (*insn_config) for DIO subdevices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" comedi_dio_insn_config
.BI "(struct comedi_device *dev "  ","
.BI "struct comedi_subdevice *s "  ","
.BI "struct comedi_insn *insn "  ","
.BI "unsigned int *data "  ","
.BI "unsigned int mask "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "dev" 12
COMEDI device.
.IP "s" 12
COMEDI subdevice.
.IP "insn" 12
COMEDI instruction.
.IP "data" 12
Instruction parameters and return data.
.IP "mask" 12
io_bits mask for grouped channels, or 0 for single channel.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
If \fImask\fP is 0, it is replaced with a single-bit mask corresponding to the
channel number specified by \fIinsn->chanspec\fP.  Otherwise, \fImask\fP
corresponds to a group of channels (which should include the specified
channel) that are always configured together as inputs or outputs.

Partially handles the INSN_CONFIG_DIO_INPUT, INSN_CONFIG_DIO_OUTPUTS,
and INSN_CONFIG_DIO_QUERY instructions.  The first two update
\fIs->io_bits\fP to record the directions of the masked channels.  The last
one sets \fIdata\fP[1] to the current direction of the group of channels
(COMEDI_INPUT) or COMEDI_OUTPUT) as recorded in \fIs->io_bits\fP.

The caller is responsible for updating the DIO direction in the hardware
registers if this function returns 0.

Returns 0 for a INSN_CONFIG_DIO_INPUT or INSN_CONFIG_DIO_OUTPUT
instruction, \fIinsn->n\fP (> 0) for a INSN_CONFIG_DIO_QUERY instruction, or
-EINVAL for some other instruction.
