.TH "drm_atomic_helper_commit_planes" 9 "drm_atomic_helper_commit_planes" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
drm_atomic_helper_commit_planes \- commit plane state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "void" drm_atomic_helper_commit_planes
.BI "(struct drm_device *dev "  ","
.BI "struct drm_atomic_state *old_state "  ","
.BI "uint32_t flags "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "dev" 12
DRM device
.IP "old_state" 12
atomic state object with old state structures
.IP "flags" 12
flags for committing plane state
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This function commits the new plane state using the plane and atomic helper
functions for planes and CRTCs. It assumes that the atomic state has already
been pushed into the relevant object state pointers, since this step can no
longer fail.

It still requires the global state object \fIold_state\fP to know which planes and
crtcs need to be updated though.

Note that this function does all plane updates across all CRTCs in one step.
If the hardware can't support this approach look at
\fBdrm_atomic_helper_commit_planes_on_crtc\fP instead.

Plane parameters can be updated by applications while the associated CRTC is
disabled. The DRM/KMS core will store the parameters in the plane state,
which will be available to the driver when the CRTC is turned on. As a result
most drivers don't need to be immediately notified of plane updates for a
disabled CRTC.

Unless otherwise needed, drivers are advised to set the ACTIVE_ONLY flag in
\fIflags\fP in order not to receive plane update notifications related to a
disabled CRTC. This avoids the need to manually ignore plane updates in
driver code when the driver and/or hardware can't or just don't need to deal
with updates on disabled CRTCs, for example when supporting runtime PM.

Drivers may set the NO_DISABLE_AFTER_MODESET flag in \fIflags\fP if the relevant
display controllers require to disable a CRTC's planes when the CRTC is
disabled. This function would skip the \fIdrm_plane_helper_funcs.atomic_disable\fP
call for a plane if the CRTC of the old plane state needs a modesetting
operation. Of course, the drivers need to disable the planes in their CRTC
disable callbacks since no one else would do that.

The \fBdrm_atomic_helper_commit\fP default implementation doesn't set the
ACTIVE_ONLY flag to most closely match the behaviour of the legacy helpers.
This should not be copied blindly by drivers.
