.TH "drm_atomic_helper_check_modeset" 9 "drm_atomic_helper_check_modeset" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
drm_atomic_helper_check_modeset \- validate state object for modeset changes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" drm_atomic_helper_check_modeset
.BI "(struct drm_device *dev "  ","
.BI "struct drm_atomic_state *state "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "dev" 12
DRM device
.IP "state" 12
the driver state object
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Check the state object to see if the requested state is physically possible.
This does all the CRTC and connector related computations for an atomic
update and adds any additional connectors needed for full modesets. It calls
the various per-object callbacks in the follow order:

1. \fIdrm_connector_helper_funcs.atomic_best_encoder\fP for determining the new encoder.
2. \fIdrm_connector_helper_funcs.atomic_check\fP to validate the connector state.
3. If it's determined a modeset is needed then all connectors on the affected
CRTC are added and \fIdrm_connector_helper_funcs.atomic_check\fP is run on them.
4. \fIdrm_encoder_helper_funcs.mode_valid\fP, \fIdrm_bridge_funcs.mode_valid\fP and
\fIdrm_crtc_helper_funcs.mode_valid\fP are called on the affected components.
5. \fIdrm_bridge_funcs.mode_fixup\fP is called on all encoder bridges.
6. \fIdrm_encoder_helper_funcs.atomic_check\fP is called to validate any encoder state.
This function is only called when the encoder will be part of a configured CRTC,
it must not be used for implementing connector property validation.
If this function is NULL, \fIdrm_atomic_encoder_helper_funcs.mode_fixup\fP is called
instead.
7. \fIdrm_crtc_helper_funcs.mode_fixup\fP is called last, to fix up the mode with CRTC constraints.

\fIdrm_crtc_state.mode_changed\fP is set when the input mode is changed.
\fIdrm_crtc_state.connectors_changed\fP is set when a connector is added or
removed from the CRTC.  \fIdrm_crtc_state.active_changed\fP is set when
\fIdrm_crtc_state.active\fP changes, which is used for DPMS.
\fIdrm_crtc_state.no_vblank\fP is set from the result of \fBdrm_dev_has_vblank\fP.
See also: \fBdrm_atomic_crtc_needs_modeset\fP

IMPORTANT:

Drivers which set \fIdrm_crtc_state.mode_changed\fP (e.g. in their
\fIdrm_plane_helper_funcs.atomic_check\fP hooks if a plane update can't be done
without a full modeset) _must_ call this function afterwards after that
change. It is permitted to call this function multiple times for the same
update, e.g. when the \fIdrm_crtc_helper_funcs.atomic_check\fP functions depend
upon the adjusted dotclock for fifo space allocation and watermark
computation.
.SH "RETURN"
Zero for success or -errno
