.TH "dwc2_hc_halt" 9 "dwc2_hc_halt" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
dwc2_hc_halt \- Attempts to halt a host channel
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "void" dwc2_hc_halt
.BI "(struct dwc2_hsotg *hsotg "  ","
.BI "struct dwc2_host_chan *chan "  ","
.BI "enum dwc2_halt_status halt_status "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "hsotg" 12
Controller register interface
.IP "chan" 12
Host channel to halt
.IP "halt_status" 12
Reason for halting the channel
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This function should only be called in Slave mode or to abort a transfer in
either Slave mode or DMA mode. Under normal circumstances in DMA mode, the
controller halts the channel when the transfer is complete or a condition
occurs that requires application intervention.

In slave mode, checks for a free request queue entry, then sets the Channel
Enable and Channel Disable bits of the Host Channel Characteristics
register of the specified channel to intiate the halt. If there is no free
request queue entry, sets only the Channel Disable bit of the HCCHARn
register to flush requests for this channel. In the latter case, sets a
flag to indicate that the host channel needs to be halted when a request
queue slot is open.

In DMA mode, always sets the Channel Enable and Channel Disable bits of the
HCCHARn register. The controller ensures there is space in the request
queue before submitting the halt request.

Some time may elapse before the core flushes any posted requests for this
host channel and halts. The Channel Halted interrupt handler completes the
deactivation of the host channel.
