.TH "ext2_alloc_branch" 9 "ext2_alloc_branch" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
ext2_alloc_branch \- allocate and set up a chain of blocks.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" ext2_alloc_branch
.BI "(struct inode *inode "  ","
.BI "int indirect_blks "  ","
.BI "int *blks "  ","
.BI "ext2_fsblk_t goal "  ","
.BI "int *offsets "  ","
.BI "Indirect *branch "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "inode" 12
owner
.IP "indirect_blks" 12
depth of the chain (number of blocks to allocate)
.IP "blks" 12
number of allocated direct blocks
.IP "goal" 12
preferred place for allocation
.IP "offsets" 12
offsets (in the blocks) to store the pointers to next.
.IP "branch" 12
place to store the chain in.

This function allocates \fInum\fP blocks, zeroes out all but the last one,
links them into chain and (if we are synchronous) writes them to disk.
In other words, it prepares a branch that can be spliced onto the
inode. It stores the information about that chain in the branch[], in
the same format as \fBext2_get_branch\fP would do. We are calling it after
we had read the existing part of chain and partial points to the last
triple of that (one with zero ->key). Upon the exit we have the same
picture as after the successful \fBext2_get_block\fP, except that in one
place chain is disconnected - *branch->p is still zero (we did not
set the last link), but branch->key contains the number that should
be placed into *branch->p to fill that gap.

If allocation fails we free all blocks we've allocated (and forget
their buffer_heads) and return the error value the from failed
\fBext2_alloc_block\fP (normally -ENOSPC). Otherwise we set the chain
as described above and return 0.
