.TH "fc_remote_port_delete" 9 "fc_remote_port_delete" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
fc_remote_port_delete \- notifies the fc transport that a remote port is no longer in existence.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "void" fc_remote_port_delete
.BI "(struct fc_rport *rport "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "rport" 12
The remote port that no longer exists
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The LLDD calls this routine to notify the transport that a remote
port is no longer part of the topology. Note: Although a port
may no longer be part of the topology, it may persist in the remote
ports displayed by the fc_host. We do this under 2 conditions:

1) If the port was a scsi target, we delay its deletion by "blocking" it.
This allows the port to temporarily disappear, then reappear without
disrupting the SCSI device tree attached to it. During the "blocked"
period the port will still exist.

2) If the port was a scsi target and disappears for longer than we
expect, we'll delete the port and the tear down the SCSI device tree
attached to it. However, we want to semi-persist the target id assigned
to that port if it eventually does exist. The port structure will
remain (although with minimal information) so that the target id
bindings also remain.

If the remote port is not an FCP Target, it will be fully torn down
and deallocated, including the fc_remote_port class device.

If the remote port is an FCP Target, the port will be placed in a
temporary blocked state. From the LLDD's perspective, the rport no
longer exists. From the SCSI midlayer's perspective, the SCSI target
exists, but all sdevs on it are blocked from further I/O. The following
is then expected.

If the remote port does not return (signaled by a LLDD call to
\fBfc_remote_port_add\fP) within the dev_loss_tmo timeout, then the
scsi target is removed - killing all outstanding i/o and removing the
scsi devices attached to it. The port structure will be marked Not
Present and be partially cleared, leaving only enough information to
recognize the remote port relative to the scsi target id binding if
it later appears.  The port will remain as long as there is a valid
binding (e.g. until the user changes the binding type or unloads the
scsi host with the binding).

If the remote port returns within the dev_loss_tmo value (and matches
according to the target id binding type), the port structure will be
reused. If it is no longer a SCSI target, the target will be torn
down. If it continues to be a SCSI target, then the target will be
unblocked (allowing i/o to be resumed), and a scan will be activated
to ensure that all luns are detected.

Called from normal process context only - cannot be called from interrupt.
.SH "NOTES"
This routine assumes no locks are held on entry.
