.TH "ibmvmc_rem_buffer" 9 "ibmvmc_rem_buffer" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
ibmvmc_rem_buffer \- Remove Buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" ibmvmc_rem_buffer
.BI "(struct crq_server_adapter *adapter "  ","
.BI "struct ibmvmc_crq_msg *crq "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "adapter" 12
crq_server_adapter struct
.IP "crq" 12
ibmvmc_crq_msg struct
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This message requests an HMC buffer to be transferred from management
partition ownership to hypervisor ownership. The management partition may
not be able to satisfy the request at a particular point in time if all its
buffers are in use. The management partition requires a depth of at least
one inbound buffer to allow management application commands to flow to the
hypervisor. It is, therefore, an interface error for the hypervisor to
attempt to remove the management partition's last buffer.

The hypervisor is expected to manage buffer usage with the management
application directly and inform the management partition when buffers may be
removed. The typical flow for removing buffers:

1. The management application no longer needs a communication path to a
particular hypervisor function. That function is closed.
2. The hypervisor and the management application quiesce all traffic to that
function. The hypervisor requests a reduction in buffer pool size.
3. The management application acknowledges the reduction in buffer pool size.
4. The hypervisor sends a Remove Buffer message to the management partition,
informing it of the reduction in buffers.
5. The management partition verifies it can remove the buffer. This is
possible if buffers have been quiesced.
.SH "RETURN"
0 - Success
Non-zero - Failure
