.TH "lpfc_els_rcv_farp" 9 "lpfc_els_rcv_farp" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_els_rcv_farp \- Process an unsolicited farp request els command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" lpfc_els_rcv_farp
.BI "(struct lpfc_vport *vport "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_iocbq *cmdiocb "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_nodelist *ndlp "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "vport" 12
pointer to a virtual N_Port data structure.
.IP "cmdiocb" 12
pointer to lpfc command iocb data structure.
.IP "ndlp" 12
pointer to a node-list data structure.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This routine processes Fibre Channel Address Resolution Protocol
(FARP) Request IOCB received as an ELS unsolicited event. Currently,
the lpfc driver only supports matching on WWPN or WWNN for FARP. As such,
FARP_MATCH_PORT flag and FARP_MATCH_NODE flag are checked against the
Match Flag in the FARP request IOCB: if FARP_MATCH_PORT flag is set, the
remote PortName is compared against the FC PortName stored in the \fIvport\fP
data structure; if FARP_MATCH_NODE flag is set, the remote NodeName is
compared against the FC NodeName stored in the \fIvport\fP data structure.
If any of these matches and the FARP_REQUEST_FARPR flag is set in the
FARP request IOCB Response Flag, the \fBlpfc_issue_els_farpr\fP routine is
invoked to send out FARP Response to the remote node. Before sending the
FARP Response, however, the FARP_REQUEST_PLOGI flag is check in the FARP
request IOCB Response Flag and, if it is set, the \fBlpfc_issue_els_plogi\fP
routine is invoked to log into the remote port first.

Return code
0 - Either the FARP Match Mode not supported or successfully processed
