.TH "lpfc_cq_create_set" 9 "lpfc_cq_create_set" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_cq_create_set \- Create a set of Completion Queues on the HBA for MRQ
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" lpfc_cq_create_set
.BI "(struct lpfc_hba *phba "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_queue **cqp "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_sli4_hdw_queue *hdwq "  ","
.BI "uint32_t type "  ","
.BI "uint32_t subtype "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "phba" 12
HBA structure that indicates port to create a queue on.
.IP "cqp" 12
The queue structure array to use to create the completion queues.
.IP "hdwq" 12
The hardware queue array  with the EQ to bind completion queues to.
.IP "type" 12
Type of queue (EQ, GCQ, MCQ, WCQ, etc).
.IP "subtype" 12
Functional purpose of the queue (MBOX, IO, ELS, NVMET, etc).
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This function creates a set of  completion queue, s to support MRQ
as detailed in \fIcqp\fP, on a port,
described by \fIphba\fP by sending a CREATE_CQ_SET mailbox command to the HBA.

The \fIphba\fP struct is used to send mailbox command to HBA. The \fIcq\fP struct
is used to get the entry count and entry size that are necessary to
determine the number of pages to allocate and use for this queue. The \fIeq\fP
is used to indicate which event queue to bind this completion queue to. This
function will send the CREATE_CQ_SET mailbox command to the HBA to setup the
completion queue. This function is asynchronous and will wait for the mailbox
command to finish before continuing.

On success this function will return a zero. If unable to allocate enough
memory this function will return -ENOMEM. If the queue create mailbox command
fails this function will return -ENXIO.
