.TH "lpfc_plogi_confirm_nport" 9 "lpfc_plogi_confirm_nport" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_plogi_confirm_nport \- Confirm plogi wwpn matches stored ndlp
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "struct lpfc_nodelist *" lpfc_plogi_confirm_nport
.BI "(struct lpfc_hba *phba "  ","
.BI "uint32_t *prsp "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_nodelist *ndlp "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "phba" 12
pointer to lpfc hba data structure.
.IP "prsp" 12
pointer to response IOCB payload.
.IP "ndlp" 12
pointer to a node-list data structure.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This routine checks and indicates whether the WWPN of an N_Port, retrieved
from a PLOGI, matches the WWPN that is stored in the \fIndlp\fP for that N_POrt.
The following cases are considered N_Port confirmed:
1) The N_Port is a Fabric ndlp; 2) The \fIndlp\fP is on vport list and matches
the WWPN of the N_Port logged into; 3) The \fIndlp\fP is not on vport list but
it does not have WWPN assigned either. If the WWPN is confirmed, the
pointer to the \fIndlp\fP will be returned. If the WWPN is not confirmed:
1) if there is a node on vport list other than the \fIndlp\fP with the same
WWPN of the N_Port PLOGI logged into, the \fBlpfc_unreg_rpi\fP will be invoked
on that node to release the RPI associated with the node; 2) if there is
no node found on vport list with the same WWPN of the N_Port PLOGI logged
into, a new node shall be allocated (or activated). In either case, the
parameters of the \fIndlp\fP shall be copied to the new_ndlp, the \fIndlp\fP shall
be released and the new_ndlp shall be put on to the vport node list and
its pointer returned as the confirmed node.

Note that before the \fIndlp\fP got "released", the keepDID from not-matching
or inactive "new_ndlp" on the vport node list is assigned to the nlp_DID
of the \fIndlp\fP. This is because the release of \fIndlp\fP is actually to put it
into an inactive state on the vport node list and the vport node list
management algorithm does not allow two node with a same DID.

Return code
pointer to the PLOGI N_Port \fIndlp\fP
