.TH "lpfc_els_rcv_flogi" 9 "lpfc_els_rcv_flogi" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_els_rcv_flogi \- Process an unsolicited flogi iocb
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" lpfc_els_rcv_flogi
.BI "(struct lpfc_vport *vport "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_iocbq *cmdiocb "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_nodelist *ndlp "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "vport" 12
pointer to a host virtual N_Port data structure.
.IP "cmdiocb" 12
pointer to lpfc command iocb data structure.
.IP "ndlp" 12
pointer to a node-list data structure.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This routine processes Fabric Login (FLOGI) IOCB received as an ELS
unsolicited event. An unsolicited FLOGI can be received in a point-to-
point topology. As an unsolicited FLOGI should not be received in a loop
mode, any unsolicited FLOGI received in loop mode shall be ignored. The
\fBlpfc_check_sparm\fP routine is invoked to check the parameters in the
unsolicited FLOGI. If parameters validation failed, the routine
\fBlpfc_els_rsp_reject\fP shall be called with reject reason code set to
LSEXP_SPARM_OPTIONS to reject the FLOGI. Otherwise, the Port WWN in the
FLOGI shall be compared with the Port WWN of the \fIvport\fP to determine who
will initiate PLOGI. The higher lexicographical value party shall has
higher priority (as the winning port) and will initiate PLOGI and
communicate Port_IDs (Addresses) for both nodes in PLOGI. The result
of this will be marked in the \fIvport\fP fc_flag field with FC_PT2PT_PLOGI
and then the \fBlpfc_els_rsp_acc\fP routine is invoked to accept the FLOGI.

Return code
0 - Successfully processed the unsolicited flogi
1 - Failed to process the unsolicited flogi
