.TH "lpfc_sli4_hba_intr_handler" 9 "lpfc_sli4_hba_intr_handler" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_sli4_hba_intr_handler \- HBA interrupt handler to SLI-4 device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "irqreturn_t" lpfc_sli4_hba_intr_handler
.BI "(int irq "  ","
.BI "void *dev_id "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "irq" 12
Interrupt number.
.IP "dev_id" 12
The device context pointer.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This function is directly called from the PCI layer as an interrupt
service routine when device with SLI-4 interface spec is enabled with
MSI-X multi-message interrupt mode and there is a fast-path FCP IOCB
ring event in the HBA. However, when the device is enabled with either
MSI or Pin-IRQ interrupt mode, this function is called as part of the
device-level interrupt handler. When the PCI slot is in error recovery
or the HBA is undergoing initialization, the interrupt handler will not
process the interrupt. The SCSI FCP fast-path ring event are handled in
the intrrupt context. This function is called without any lock held.
It gets the hbalock to access and update SLI data structures. Note that,
the FCP EQ to FCP CQ are one-to-one map such that the FCP EQ index is
equal to that of FCP CQ index.

The link attention and ELS ring attention events are handled
by the worker thread. The interrupt handler signals the worker thread
and returns for these events. This function is called without any lock
held. It gets the hbalock to access and update SLI data structures.

This function returns IRQ_HANDLED when interrupt is handled else it
returns IRQ_NONE.
