.TH "lpfc_find_next_oas_lun" 9 "lpfc_find_next_oas_lun" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_find_next_oas_lun \- searches for the next oas lun
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "bool" lpfc_find_next_oas_lun
.BI "(struct lpfc_hba *phba "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_name *vport_wwpn "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_name *target_wwpn "  ","
.BI "uint64_t *starting_lun "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_name *found_vport_wwpn "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_name *found_target_wwpn "  ","
.BI "uint64_t *found_lun "  ","
.BI "uint32_t *found_lun_status "  ","
.BI "uint32_t *found_lun_pri "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "phba" 12
Pointer to host bus adapter structure.
.IP "vport_wwpn" 12
Pointer to vport's wwpn information
.IP "target_wwpn" 12
Pointer to target's wwpn information
.IP "starting_lun" 12
Pointer to the lun to start searching for
.IP "found_vport_wwpn" 12
Pointer to the found lun's vport wwpn information
.IP "found_target_wwpn" 12
Pointer to the found lun's target wwpn information
.IP "found_lun" 12
Pointer to the found lun.
.IP "found_lun_status" 12
Pointer to status of the found lun.
.IP "found_lun_pri" 12
Pointer to priority of the found lun.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This routine searches the luns list for the specified lun
or the first lun for the vport/target.  If the vport wwpn contains
a zero value then a specific vport is not specified. In this case
any vport which contains the lun will be considered a match.  If the
target wwpn contains a zero value then a specific target is not specified.
In this case any target which contains the lun will be considered a
match.  If the lun is found, the lun, vport wwpn, target wwpn and lun status
are returned.  The function will also return the next lun if available.
If the next lun is not found, starting_lun parameter will be set to
NO_MORE_OAS_LUN.

Return codes:
non-0 - Error
0 - Success
