.TH "lpfc_els_rsp_rnid_acc" 9 "lpfc_els_rsp_rnid_acc" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_els_rsp_rnid_acc \- Issue rnid acc response iocb command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" lpfc_els_rsp_rnid_acc
.BI "(struct lpfc_vport *vport "  ","
.BI "uint8_t format "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_iocbq *oldiocb "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_nodelist *ndlp "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "vport" 12
pointer to a virtual N_Port data structure.
.IP "format" 12
rnid command format.
.IP "oldiocb" 12
pointer to the original lpfc command iocb data structure.
.IP "ndlp" 12
pointer to a node-list data structure.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This routine issues a Request Node Identification Data (RNID) Accept
(ACC) response. It constructs the RNID ACC response command according to
the proper \fIformat\fP and then calls the \fBlpfc_sli_issue_iocb\fP routine to
issue the response. Note that this command does not need to hold the ndlp
reference count for the callback. So, the ndlp reference count taken by
the \fBlpfc_prep_els_iocb\fP routine is put back and the context1 field of
IOCB is set to NULL to indicate to the \fBlpfc_els_free_iocb\fP routine that
there is no ndlp reference available.

Note that, in \fBlpfc_prep_els_iocb\fP routine, the reference count of ndlp
will be incremented by 1 for holding the ndlp and the reference to ndlp
will be stored into the context1 field of the IOCB for the completion
callback function. However, for the RNID Accept Response ELS command,
this is undone later by this routine after the IOCB is allocated.

Return code
0 - Successfully issued acc rnid response
1 - Failed to issue acc rnid response
