.TH "lpfc_mrq_create" 9 "lpfc_mrq_create" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
lpfc_mrq_create \- Create MRQ Receive Queues on the HBA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" lpfc_mrq_create
.BI "(struct lpfc_hba *phba "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_queue **hrqp "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_queue **drqp "  ","
.BI "struct lpfc_queue **cqp "  ","
.BI "uint32_t subtype "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "phba" 12
HBA structure that indicates port to create a queue on.
.IP "hrqp" 12
The queue structure array to use to create the header receive queues.
.IP "drqp" 12
The queue structure array to use to create the data receive queues.
.IP "cqp" 12
The completion queue array to bind these receive queues to.
.IP "subtype" 12
Functional purpose of the queue (MBOX, IO, ELS, NVMET, etc).
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This function creates a receive buffer queue pair , as detailed in \fIhrq\fP and
\fIdrq\fP, on a port, described by \fIphba\fP by sending a RQ_CREATE mailbox command
to the HBA.

The \fIphba\fP struct is used to send mailbox command to HBA. The \fIdrq\fP and \fIhrq\fP
struct is used to get the entry count that is necessary to determine the
number of pages to use for this queue. The \fIcq\fP is used to indicate which
completion queue to bind received buffers that are posted to these queues to.
This function will send the RQ_CREATE mailbox command to the HBA to setup the
receive queue pair. This function is asynchronous and will wait for the
mailbox command to finish before continuing.

On success this function will return a zero. If unable to allocate enough
memory this function will return -ENOMEM. If the queue create mailbox command
fails this function will return -ENXIO.
