.TH "packing" 9 "packing" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
packing \- Convert numbers (currently u64) between a packed and an unpacked format. Unpacked means laid out in memory in the CPU's native understanding of integers, while packed means anything else that requires translation.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" packing
.BI "(void *pbuf "  ","
.BI "u64 *uval "  ","
.BI "int startbit "  ","
.BI "int endbit "  ","
.BI "size_t pbuflen "  ","
.BI "enum packing_op op "  ","
.BI "u8 quirks "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "pbuf" 12
Pointer to a buffer holding the packed value.
.IP "uval" 12
Pointer to an u64 holding the unpacked value.
.IP "startbit" 12
The index (in logical notation, compensated for quirks) where
the packed value starts within pbuf. Must be larger than, or
equal to, endbit.
.IP "endbit" 12
The index (in logical notation, compensated for quirks) where
the packed value ends within pbuf. Must be smaller than, or equal
to, startbit.
.IP "pbuflen" 12
The length in bytes of the packed buffer pointed to by \fIpbuf\fP.
.IP "op" 12
If PACK, then uval will be treated as const pointer and copied (packed)
into pbuf, between startbit and endbit.
If UNPACK, then pbuf will be treated as const pointer and the logical
value between startbit and endbit will be copied (unpacked) to uval.
.IP "quirks" 12
A bit mask of QUIRK_LITTLE_ENDIAN, QUIRK_LSW32_IS_FIRST and
QUIRK_MSB_ON_THE_RIGHT.
.SH "RETURN"
0 on success, EINVAL or ERANGE if called incorrectly. Assuming
correct usage, return code may be discarded.
If op is PACK, pbuf is modified.
If op is UNPACK, uval is modified.
