.TH "pci_create_slot" 9 "pci_create_slot" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
pci_create_slot \- create or increment refcount for physical PCI slot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "struct pci_slot *" pci_create_slot
.BI "(struct pci_bus *parent "  ","
.BI "int slot_nr "  ","
.BI "const char *name "  ","
.BI "struct hotplug_slot *hotplug "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "parent" 12
struct pci_bus of parent bridge
.IP "slot_nr" 12
PCI_SLOT(pci_dev->devfn) or -1 for placeholder
.IP "name" 12
user visible string presented in /sys/bus/pci/slots/<name>
.IP "hotplug" 12
set if caller is hotplug driver, NULL otherwise
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
PCI slots have first class attributes such as address, speed, width,
and a \fIstruct pci_slot\fP is used to manage them. This interface will
either return a new \fIstruct pci_slot\fP to the caller, or if the pci_slot
already exists, its refcount will be incremented.

Slots are uniquely identified by a \fIpci_bus\fP, \fIslot_nr\fP tuple.

There are known platforms with broken firmware that assign the same
name to multiple slots. Workaround these broken platforms by renaming
the slots on behalf of the caller. If firmware assigns name N to
multiple slots:

The first slot is assigned N
The second slot is assigned N-1
The third slot is assigned N-2
etc.

Placeholder slots:
In most cases, \fIpci_bus\fP, \fIslot_nr\fP will be sufficient to uniquely identify
a slot. There is one notable exception - pSeries (rpaphp), where the
\fIslot_nr\fP cannot be determined until a device is actually inserted into
the slot. In this scenario, the caller may pass -1 for \fIslot_nr\fP.

The following semantics are imposed when the caller passes \fIslot_nr\fP ==
-1. First, we no longer check for an existing struct pci_slot, as there
may be many slots with \fIslot_nr\fP of -1.  The other change in semantics is
user-visible, which is the 'address' parameter presented in sysfs will
consist solely of a dddd:bb tuple, where dddd is the PCI domain of the
struct pci_bus and bb is the bus number. In other words, the devfn of
the 'placeholder' slot will not be displayed.
