.TH "proc_create_net_single_write" 9 "proc_create_net_single_write" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
proc_create_net_single_write \- Create a writable net_ns-specific proc file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "struct proc_dir_entry *" proc_create_net_single_write
.BI "(const char *name "  ","
.BI "umode_t mode "  ","
.BI "struct proc_dir_entry *parent "  ","
.BI "int (*show)(struct seq_file *, void *) "  ","
.BI "proc_write_t write "  ","
.BI "void *data "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "name" 12
The name of the file.
.IP "mode" 12
The file's access mode.
.IP "parent" 12
The parent directory in which to create.
.IP "show" 12
The seqfile show method with which to read the file.
.IP "write" 12
The write method with which to 'modify' the file.
.IP "data" 12
Data for retrieval by \fBPDE_DATA\fP.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Create a network-namespaced proc file in the \fIparent\fP directory with the
specified \fIname\fP and \fImode\fP that allows reading of a file that displays a
single element rather than a series and also provides for the file accepting
writes that have some arbitrary effect.

The \fIshow\fP function is called to extract the readable content via the
seq_file interface.

The \fIwrite\fP function is called with the data copied into a kernel space
scratch buffer and has a NUL appended for convenience.  The buffer may be
modified by the \fIwrite\fP function.  \fIwrite\fP should return 0 on success.

The \fIdata\fP value is accessible from the \fIshow\fP and \fIwrite\fP functions by calling
\fBPDE_DATA\fP on the file inode.  The network namespace must be accessed by
calling \fBseq_file_single_net\fP on the seq_file struct.
