.TH "spi_nor_init_params" 9 "spi_nor_init_params" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
spi_nor_init_params \- Initialize the flash's parameters and settings.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" spi_nor_init_params
.BI "(struct spi_nor *nor "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "nor" 12
pointer to a 'struct spi_nor'.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The flash parameters and settings are initialized based on a sequence of
calls that are ordered by priority:

1/ Default flash parameters initialization. The initializations are done
based on nor->info data:
\fBspi_nor_info_init_params\fP

which can be overwritten by:
2/ Manufacturer flash parameters initialization. The initializations are
done based on MFR register, or when the decisions can not be done solely
based on MFR, by using specific flash_info tweeks, ->\fBdefault_init\fP:
\fBspi_nor_manufacturer_init_params\fP

which can be overwritten by:
3/ SFDP flash parameters initialization. JESD216 SFDP is a standard and
should be more accurate that the above.
\fBspi_nor_sfdp_init_params\fP

Please note that there is a ->\fBpost_bfpt\fP fixup hook that can overwrite
the flash parameters and settings immediately after parsing the Basic
Flash Parameter Table.

which can be overwritten by:
4/ Post SFDP flash parameters initialization. Used to tweak various
parameters that could not be extracted by other means (i.e. when
information provided by the SFDP/flash_info tables are incomplete or
wrong).
\fBspi_nor_post_sfdp_fixups\fP

5/ Late default flash parameters initialization, used when the
->\fBdefault_init\fP hook or the SFDP parser do not set specific params.
\fBspi_nor_late_init_params\fP
