.TH "ssh_rtl_flush" 9 "ssh_rtl_flush" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
ssh_rtl_flush \- Flush the request transport layer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "int" ssh_rtl_flush
.BI "(struct ssh_rtl *rtl "  ","
.BI "unsigned long timeout "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "rtl" 12
request transport layer
.IP "timeout" 12
timeout for the flush operation in jiffies
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
Queue a special flush request and wait for its completion. This request
will be completed after all other currently queued and pending requests
have been completed. Instead of a normal data packet, this request submits
a special flush packet, meaning that upon completion, also the underlying
packet transport layer has been flushed.

Flushing the request layer guarantees that all previously submitted
requests have been fully completed before this call returns. Additionally,
flushing blocks execution of all later submitted requests until the flush
has been completed.

If the caller ensures that no new requests are submitted after a call to
this function, the request transport layer is guaranteed to have no
remaining requests when this call returns. The same guarantee does not hold
for the packet layer, on which control packets may still be queued after
this call.
.SH "RETURN"
Returns zero on success, -ETIMEDOUT if the flush timed out and has
been canceled as a result of the timeout, or -ESHUTDOWN if the packet
and/or request transport layer has been shut down before this call. May
also return -EINTR if the underlying packet transmission has been
interrupted.
