.TH "sys_fsconfig" 9 "sys_fsconfig" "May 2021" "Kernel Hacker's Manual" LINUX
.SH NAME
sys_fsconfig \- Set parameters and trigger actions on a context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "long" sys_fsconfig
.BI "(int fd "  ","
.BI "unsigned int cmd "  ","
.BI "const char __user * _key "  ","
.BI "const void __user * _value "  ","
.BI "int aux "  ");"
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP "fd" 12
The filesystem context to act upon
.IP "cmd" 12
The action to take
.IP "_key" 12
Where appropriate, the parameter key to set
.IP "_value" 12
Where appropriate, the parameter value to set
.IP "aux" 12
Additional information for the value
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This system call is used to set parameters on a context, including
superblock settings, data source and security labelling.

Actions include triggering the creation of a superblock and the
reconfiguration of the superblock attached to the specified context.

When setting a parameter, \fIcmd\fP indicates the type of value being proposed
and \fI_key\fP indicates the parameter to be altered.

\fI_value\fP and \fIaux\fP are used to specify the value, should a value be required:

(*) fsconfig_set_flag: No value is specified.  The parameter must be boolean
in nature.  The key may be prefixed with "no" to invert the
setting. \fI_value\fP must be NULL and \fIaux\fP must be 0.

(*) fsconfig_set_string: A string value is specified.  The parameter can be
expecting boolean, integer, string or take a path.  A conversion to an
appropriate type will be attempted (which may include looking up as a
path).  \fI_value\fP points to a NUL-terminated string and \fIaux\fP must be 0.

(*) fsconfig_set_binary: A binary blob is specified.  \fI_value\fP points to the
blob and \fIaux\fP indicates its size.  The parameter must be expecting a
blob.

(*) fsconfig_set_path: A non-empty path is specified.  The parameter must be
expecting a path object.  \fI_value\fP points to a NUL-terminated string that
is the path and \fIaux\fP is a file descriptor at which to start a relative
lookup or AT_FDCWD.

(*) fsconfig_set_path_empty: As fsconfig_set_path, but with AT_EMPTY_PATH
implied.

(*) fsconfig_set_fd: An open file descriptor is specified.  \fI_value\fP must be
NULL and \fIaux\fP indicates the file descriptor.
